- So we deployed a simple Couchbase cluster.
In all the cases, the data of Couchbase was
within the container itself. But what are my strategies
for writing persistent containers? Let's take a look at that
Well, the default one is Implicit Per-Container Storage.
So what that means is when you fire up a container
and if there is any data that needs to be stored as part
of the container, there is implicit sandbox available.
And that directory is always stored in
/var/lib/docker/volumes on the host
or docker host.
So if you are running docker for Mac, it's in that VM
if it's running on docker for AWS, it's on that host.
Well, the container crashes or gets deleted,
that means the directory is unavailable.
Host crashes, certainly, the directory is unavailable.
This directory cannot be shared with other containers.
So there are some advantages
where you can easily get started.
But there are some disadvantages as well.
There is Explicit Per-Container Storage.
What that means is, you can create a volume explicitly
using docker volume command.
The volume still exists in /var/lib/docker/volumes.
It has the same disadvantages;
that is if the container crashes or gets deleted,
directory is unavailable. And if the host crashes,
directory is unavailable as well.
And it cannot be shared with other containers.
Now if you are on Per-Host Storage,
you can create a directory on the host.
And that host has all the data stored onto it
in a specific directory.
If the container crashes or gets deleted,
then the directory is still available to you.
But if the host crashes, because the directory is
on the host, the directory is unavailable.
And then multiple containers can read and write the volume
but of course it depends upon what database levels support
is available. Any changes to the volume is not part
of the image because you have made changes to the directory
which outside what the image is.
So if the container is started up on a different host
then those changes will not be available to you.
And the last strategy that we're going to talk about
in this section is Shared-Host Storage where you can have
distributed storage or distributed file systems
such as Ceph, GlusterFS, and network file system
and have a directory created over there.
You can adapt certain consistent naming conventions
and namespaces so that containers have access
across multiple hosts.
The mount point of the volume that is created using
these distributed file systems is available on all nodes.
The advantage is if the container crashes or gets deleted
the directory is still available.
And the directory is available even if the host crashes
because it's on a distributed file system.
Most likely getting backed up and stuff like that.
So let's compare and contrast each of these.
Well, the first column is identifying what attributes
we're going to compare on.
The second column is Per-Container Implicit.
Third column is Per-Container Explicit.
Fourth column is Per-Host and last column is Multihost.
So you can see the advantages and disadvantages
on each of the cases.
If you look at the location,
the location is /var/lib/docker/volumes on the first two.
The third one was mounted within the container.
Because the directory is still on the host.
And on the Multihost, of course, it's mounted
on the file system.
And then you can look at if the container crashes
or the host crash, what's the status
of the directory available?
And the last row is basically about the shared part of it,
whether the volume is shareable or not shareable.